Daily Dids (22.3.18 - Today)
Thu Apr 11 @ VIC (8/13) @ GNS (1430/1740)
-Seisflows on maui
-Met with Yoshi to talk about work, return field gear
-Worked on BEACON waveform data
Wed Apr 10 @ VIC (12/17)
-Seisflows on maui
Tue Apr 9 @ HOME (730/1100) @ VIC (120/1645)
-Practicing presentation at home
-Gave proposal presentation
-Worked on seisflows and email to emily regarding post field
Mon Apr 8 @ VIC (815/1830)
-Working on proposal presentation
Tue Apr 2-5 @ Field
-Beacon station removal
Mon Apr 1 @ Home (830/17)
-Finished calling landowners
-Worked on proposal presentation
-Packed up for fieldwork
Fri Mar 29 @ VIC (9/12) @ GNS (13/15)
-Prepared for meeting with Carl and Yoshi
-Forward simulation on coarse mesh
-Met with Carl and Yoshi to talk about progress and plan
-Called landowners
Thu Mar 28 @ VIC (1030/14)
-Tried for seisflows example on Maui 
Wed Mar 27 @ VIC (915/1830)
-Sesiflows example on Maui
-Coarser mesh creation
-Smoothing of kernel to look for artefacts
Tue Mar 26 @ Home (845/11) (13/1830)
-Prepped and skyped with Ryan Modrak concerning seisflows
-Met with Yoshi to talk about progress
-Worked on proposal presi
Mon Mar 25 @ VIC (9/17)
-Checked new coarse mesh, worked
-Tried to run seisflows on Maui but hangs
-Prepared for skype call with Ryan tomorrow morning
-Composite misfit windows and kernel images to look at with Carl tomorrow
-Proposal talk presentation
Fri Mar 22 @ VIC (10/17)
-Responded to Ryans email
-Worked on getting seisflows working on Maui
-Looked at smoothed kernels, weird artefacts
-Created a new coarse mesh
Thu Mar 21 @ VIC (940/14) @ GNS (15/1640)
-Smoothed event kernels
Responding email Ryan
-Went to GNS to hear Carl’s talk
-Talked to Yoshi/Carl about meshing
Wed Mar 20 @ VIC (840/1515)
-Addressed comments from Yoshi on Vic proposal
-Responded to Ryan with questions about seisflows
-Looked into the directory structure and output sturcture of seisflows
Tue Mar 19 @ GNS (930/15)
-Finished revisions and rebuttal letter to vic proposal, emailed John and Yoshi
-Met with Yoshi, talked about seisflows and next steps in how to run
-Met with Carl and talked theoretical
Mon Mar 18 @ VIC (815/2115)
-Addressing proposal comments, reading papers to understand 
-Deleting space on Maui
-Ran new coarse mesh
Fri Mar 15 @ VIC (1030/17)
-Seisflows on Chinook
-Got comments back on proposal, started working on them
-Attended Carls talk
Thu Mar 14 @ VIC (10/17)
-Tried to redo mesher to generate coarse (8sec) mesh but no Trelis? almost there
-Got seisflows working on Chinook with the help of Ryan
Wed Mar 13 @ VIC(915/1245,1530/22) @ GNS(115-2)
-Tried to get seisflows to work on chinook
-Printed some figures to get ready for Tape/Kaneko meeting
-Went to GNS, met with Tape/Kaneko to talk about progress and kernels
-Back to Vic to finish and send magscale paper
Tue Mar 12 Mental health day
Mon Mar 11 @ VIC (915/?)
-Responded to Ryan, worked on magscale
-Lunchtime talk
Fri Mar 8 @ (9/17)
-Worked on magscale
-Prepared for John/Yoshi meeting
-John/Yoshi meeting
Thu Mar 7 @ GNS (11/19)
-Attended Marine Denolles talk on source time functions
-Worked on vtk file generation in pyatoa
-Prepped for talk with Marine
-Magscale 
Wed Mar 6 @ VIC (10/19)
-Commented and finalized simutils so to a useable state
-Worked on application for GSNZ Young Researcher scholarship
-Read Yoshi’s manuscript on ground duration
-Worked on magnitude scale paper from about 1500
Tue Mar 5 @ GNS (9/13) @ VIC (14/17)
-Prepared figures for meeting with Yoshi and Carl
-Met with Yoshi and Carl to discuss what we will do the next month
-Worked on 9 event model update but realized kernels were all messed up for 5 events
Mon Mar 4 @ VIC (930/18)
-Finished some adjoint and forward runs with misfit quantifications
-Improved simutils python script for status checks and better coordination
Fri Mar 1 @ VIC (830/16)
-FSRG application
-Ran forward and adjoint simulations for a more in depth model update
Thu Feb 28 @ VIC (9/14) @ GNS (15/16)
-Model update confirmation and print, finished python scripts for simutils
-Met with Yoshi
Wed Feb 27 @ VIC (8/1830)
-Rewrote simutils bash scripts into a python script
-Checked kernels, reran 1 adjoint simulation for bad looking kernle
-Smoothed kernels
-Attended Simon’s talk on rock cohesion
Tue Feb 26 @ VIC (930/17)
-Ran adjoint simulations and streamlined the post-adjoint process as well as the adjoint build scripts
-Looked into why beacon stations are showing no signal for earthquakes -- investigated response information and looked at waveforms
-Worked on earthquake catalog stuff
Mon Feb 25 @ VIC (1130/1730)
-Ran more forward simulations
-Tried running adjoint simulation, failed
-Working with Pyatoa -- tried to figure out why BEACON stations are showing weird data > potentially due to time shift? or due to instrument response? not sure yet.
Fri Feb 22 @ VIC (9/1640)
-I think successful model update?
-Started running new simulations to get a better kernel for update
-Worked on Pyatoa logo
Thu Feb 21 @ VIC (10/17)
-Working on model update, progress but not solution unfortunately
Wed Feb 20 @ VIC (9/14) @ GNS (15/16)
-Worked on trying to get model updates working
-Met with Yoshi and discussed what I’ve been working on
Wed Feb 6 - Tue Feb 19 @ VIC (~8 hours per day)
-Magscale paper, first revision draft, sent to co-authors for feedback
Tue Feb 5 @ VIC (9/1530)
-Magscale paper - finished going through reviewers comments, created a new story to tell, drafted email for co-authors containing “new story,” and started working on paper edits
Mon Feb 4 @ VIC (930/18)
-Magscale paper - addressing reviewers comments, emailed Bernhard about Specfem stuff
Fri Feb 1 @ VIC/GNS (10/1430)(15/1630)
-Working on pyatoa functionalities
-Met with Yoshi to discuss current work, future work, upcoming conferences, fieldwork
Thu Jan 31 @ VIC (845/17)
-Finished proposal, sent to John
-Running around dealing with Fibre today, waste of a day
Wed Jan 30 @ VIC (9/17)
-Finished cleaning up proposal and sent to John and Yoshi for final comments
-Started working on magnitude scale comments from reviewers
Tue Jan 29 @ GNS (9/16)
 -Full day Kaikoura workshop
Mon Jan 28 @ VIC (8/17)
-Added all new references to porposal
-Listened to Kennys talk for workshop
+Busy with flat things
Fri Jan 25 @ VIC (?/?)
-Worked on proposal
Thu Jan 24 @ VIC (9/14) @ GNS (15/17)
-Expenses for field work and AGU
-Worked on Pyatoa documentation and fixing the workflow
-Read Krischer et al. 2018 regarding large scale seismic waveform inversion
-Uploaded data from Jan fieldwork
-Wrote field reports for Nov and Jan fieldwork
Wed Jan 23 @ VIC (10/17)
-Finished proposal, sent to John
-Met with John regarding proposal
-Started working on documentation for Pyatoa and a tutorial
Tue Jan 22 @ VIC (830/17)
-Worked on proposal
-Emailed Carl back regarding my progress on tomography problem
-Attended talk regarding J waves
Jan 15-18 Fieldwork
Tue Dec 4 @ VIC (945/1715, 2030/2215)
-AGU poster
Mon Dec 3 @ GNS (745/1635)
-Poster for AGU18
Mon-Fri Nov 26-29
-GSNZ18
Wed-Fri Nov 21-23
-Long hours, stressful evenings. Finished tremor work for gsnz
Tue Nov 20 @ GNS (12/1715)
-Worked on tremor work and cgps plotting
-Converted mseeds for plotting in tremor
-Prepped for meeting with Yoshi
-Met with Yoshi ~2 hours to talk about Geosciences to dos, AGU to dos, BEACON to dos and to work on adj tomo problem a bit to try to figure out why fortran errors
Mon Nov 19 @ VIC (730/1930)
-Collected and plotted cGPS data coinciding with Chiapas earthquake
-Worked on poster for geosciences
-Started reprocessing and plotting tremor detection work
Fri Nov 16 @ VIC (845/15)
-Kernel smoothing, precondition and summing and model update albeit with methods not in the specfem manual. Tried to run a new simulation with the new model with no luck
-Started working on flexwin configuration changing to get better window indentification for our methods
Thu Nov 15 @ VIC (8/1722)
-Reran tomography problem from the beginning. Forward simulation of two events with the same database, misfit analysis with pyatoa, adjoint simulations for both and kernel smoothing with approximate hessian. Next step sum preconditioned kernels and model update. fingers crossed!
Wed Nov 14 @ GNS (740/10) @ VIC (1345/1830)
-Uploaded BEACON store files
-Worked towards model update and bash scripting for auto post-processing
Tue Nov 13 @ VIC (830/19)
-Finished writing proposal and sent it off to Yoshi
-Attended Chets talk on induced seismicity
Mon Nov 12 @ GNS (730/16)
-Invoice to Yoshi for beacon servicing
-Wrote and proofread most of proposal, to submit tomorrow
-Met with Yoshi, moved batteries, discussed GSNZ, and AGU and what to do for each
Tue-Fri Nov 6-9@ Beacon Servicing
Mon Nov 5 @ VIC/GNS (830/18) 
-Finished calling landowners and fieldwork prep
-Wrote and edited proposal
-Met with Dez about FieldTeq, picked up first aid and PLB’s
-Went to GNS, picked up UTE and loaded it
-Read about optimization algorithms and added that section to the proposal
Fri Nov 2 @ VIC (830/1630)
-Writing for thesis proposal
Thu Nov 1 @ VIC (10/1830)
-Organized and contacted rental companies to check on vehicles for fieldwork
-Talked to Kosta about fieldteq
-Called landowners for site acess and organized field folder
-Finished reading Reyners paper and started writing
Wed Oct 31 @ GNS (830/1615)
-Checked earthquake downloading script and added internal path searching
-Ran smoothing of kernels on Maui
-Finished reading Wallace et al 2004
-Started reading Reyners 1989
-Chatted with Yoshi about work, started fieldwork prep
Tue Oct 30 Day off
Mon Oct 29 @ VIC (8/17)
-Caught up on emails 
-Event kernels summed on maui, kernel visualized on Paraview
-Talked to Martha about Hikurangi tectonic papers to read
-Attended Konrads defense
-Started reading Wallace et al. 2004
Fri Oct 9 - Sat Oct 27 
South Island Fieldwork - SAMBA, COSA, SISIE network maintenance
Thu Oct 8 @ VIC (945/17)
-South Island fieldwork prep
-Adjoint simulation run
-Source time function to gaussian
Wed Oct 17 @ GNS (945/1530)
-Rotated some seismograms for Yoshi
-Looked at error messages on Maui
-Working on source time function differences
-Met with Yoshi for 1 hour to discuss field work, current work, future work
Tue Oct 16 @ VIC (930/1830)
-Checking specfem fortran errors
-Prepping fieldwork
-Read Ryans ‘best practices’ paper
???
Mon Oct 15 @ VIC (730/1630)
-Made LUV booking through Dannevirke Honda
-Drive time table for fieldwork
-Planned out fieldwork potential site order
-Got adjoint simulation to work, set up directory structure, running second adjoint simulation to test out kernel summing
-Looked into seisflows to see how the workflow procedure works
-Looked into why Beacon stations are off, could be response files?
-Cleaned up pyatoa diver
-Started reading Modrak GJI 2016
Fri Oct 12 @ VIC (10/1645)
-Called Sargent and got prices for LV rental
-Looked into why pyflex is throwing errors but couldnt find root
-Looking into why BEACON stations are throwing low amplitudes, due to moment tensor?
-Tried to run adjoint simulations but couldn’t get it to go with proper formatting, perhaps attenuation? rerunning example to see if attenuation is the problem
Thu Oct 11 @ VIC (1030/1745)
-Sent Yoshi updated GSN files with rotation and new source receiver text
-Reran pyatoa a few times to try to figure out where the pyflex bugs are coming form, weird arrival times?
-Tried to run adjoint simulations but floating point errors
-Looked into why floating point errors are occurring
Wed Oct 10 @ VIC (13/16)
-Looked at how to adjust pyatoa adjoint source generation because my kernel simulation hit a floating point error which I think came from the adjoint source
-Met with Yoshi for >1hour to talk about current work, future work, field work etc.
Tue Oct 9 @ VIC (7/18)
-Worked on Pyatoa adjoint source generation
-Started adjoint simulation
-Attended Carolyn Boultons talk on hikurangi rocks 
Mon Oct 8 @ VIC (8/16)
-Kaikoura data downloader for Yoshi, semi working need to quality control
-Started working on inversion with specfem, ran into a few problems with adjoint source generation that need to be fixed in pyatoa
Fri Oct 5 @ VIC (745/17)
-Ran more simulations, got c_master working
-Visuzalized outputs of seisflows
-Finished reading about tomo tools in specfem
-Called dealerships and got price quotes for LUV
-Discussed south island fieldwork
Thu Oct 4 @ VIC (730/16)
-Got b_master working and batch ran about 10 simulations, worked on bash run scripts
-Read on generation of adjoint sources in Specfem manual (super helpful)
-Emailed Ryan regarding seisflows plotting
-Attended Finns talk on anisotropy of a rifting region
-Booked a quote for a UTE rental
Wed Oct 3 @ HOME (13/17)
-Read about multitaper misfit
-Wrote more thesis proposal
Tue Oct 2 @ GNS (10/1830)
-Started running simulations on maui
-Helped Kostas with his presentation, attended his presentation
-Created GSN station list for Yoshi
-Worked on BEACON logo
Mon Oct 1 @ GNS (1245/1545) feeling sick
-Successfully started checkerboard test on seisflows on local machine
-Met with yoshi and discussed current work and future work
-Talked to Rory about LUV rentals
Fri Sep 28 @ VIC (10/1630)
-Git repo for maui scripts
-Sent in application for JA scholarship
Thu Sep 27 @ VIC (10/1720) 
-Finished application for JA scholarship
-Wrote more proposal
-Ran a few simulations
Wed Sep 26 @ VIC (1130/19) small break to visit Garth
-Finished reading Tape (2007) and understanding the mathematics behind the paper
-Finished application for GSNZ Jim Ansell scholarship
Tue Sep 25 @ VIC (945/1745)
-Ran simulations
-Set up bash scripts for easier simulation runs
-Wrote proposal
-Started reading Tape 2007 regarding adjoint methods and tomography
Mon Sep 24 @ VIC (9/17)
-Wrote proposal
-Ran simulations
Fri Sep 21 @ VIC (9/17)
-Fixed run problem for simulations on kupe, ran 2 simulatiuons and retrived data
-Tested on homogeneous_halfspace on maui, all good on first run
-Started a simulation on maui
-Reorganized run folders and cleaned up space on kupe/maui
-Attended Kasper’s talk on using lasers to create seismograms
-misc. knocked out wheel bearings on vtr wheels
Thu Sep 20 @ VIC (1030/18)
-Simulation did not run, started a new run folder and ran
Pyatoa started run through, started working on diver class
-Started work on displayboard
-Attended Katie Woods’ talk on InSar
Wed Sep 19 @ VIC (10/15) nice day
-Fixed moment tensor calling in pyatoa mapper
-Started working on figure generation for pyatoa
-Running simulation on new mesh
-Wrote a small download script for Yoshi
Tue Sep 18 @ GNS (9/1610)
-Added custom adjoint source saving
-Added moment tensor object creation from GeoNet CSV and appending to event object
-Cleaned up workflow and created run script
-Chatted with Yoshi about current efforts and work over next week or so
-Put batteries away, all faults gone on new batteries
Mon Sep 17 @ VIC (930/1630)
-Reformatted GSNZ abstract and submitted
-Finished documentation of current pyatoa scripts
-Looked into seisflows, attempted to download but did not work
Fri Sep 14 @ VIC (930/17)
-Pyatoa works with RDF data
-Started doc strings in processor function
-Cleaned up conversion of fault data for pyatoa and moved .npz files into repo
-Attended talk on supervolcanoes, and another talk on himalaya earthquakes (1hour each)
-Quickly made calls to landowners for potential trip next week
Thu Sep 13 @ VIC (10/18)
-Checked mesh results of SRTM30P_550_641 against SRTM30P_552_???, at 6-30s waveforms match exact, at 2-30s coda doesnt match (as expected?)
-Cleared out large amount of data from Kupe folders (database folders take up huge amounts of data)
-Reorganized directory structures, removed a lot of fluff
-Created a master station list and a generation script
-Finished Pyatoa mapper
Wed Sep 12 @ VIC (9/1630)
-Emailed John about setting upa  meeting
-Emailed GSNZ abstract to co-authors
-Pyatoa working up to map generation
Tue Sep 11 @ GNS (9/19)
-Registered for NZ geosciences conference
-Uploaded and converted data from FATHOM cards
-Talked to Yoshi about work and ongoing work, swapped out batteries
-Talked to Laura and Yoshi about trigerred tremor work
-Progress on Pyatoa
Mon Sep 10 @ VIC (945/1845)
-Wrote abstract for NZ Geosciences
-Registered for NZ Geosciences
-Checked new mesh with new bounds, put on kupe and started a meshtest simulation
-Worked on pyatoa, added waveform plotting, started on map plotting
Fri Aug 31 @ GNS (930/17)
-Pyatoa data gatherer working and config update
-Lunchtime seismo meeting about some earthquake simulator and Holdens sim work
-Fieldwork prep, battery charging, etc. + discovered rejuvination mode on the batteries.
Thu Aug 30 @ VIC (1030/17)
-Pyatoa getter and fetcher working okay
-Called farmers for next week field works
Wed Aug 29 @ VIC (915/1930)
-Worked on pyatoa data fetching and class structure, data fetching and config work now
Tue Aug 28 @ VIC (915/16)
-Emailed Yoshi regarding fieldwork
-Changed mesh dimensions, spent a few good hours determining whether my meshes were wrong, decided that they were infact correct
-Continued working on pyatoa format and structure
Mon Aug 27 @ GNS (915/1845)
-Worked on pyatoa, intializing all the pre-written code
-Met with Yoshi, discussed upcoming fieldwork, current ongoing work and prepped batteries for next weeks fieldwork
-Made prelimary contact with a few farmers to determine fieldwork schedule
-Created outline for Vic proposal
Fri Aug 24 @ GNS/VIC (8-11/13-1630)
-Prep for tape skype
-tape skype update on progress
-Started working on pyatoa
Thu Aug 23 @ VIC (11/1745)
-Read up on misfit calculation
-Combined srcrcv maps and waveforms and reran for new maps
-Misfit and CC time shift histograms clean
-Talked to Calum about creating a package out of my scripts
-Talked to Yoshi on the phone in prep for the Tapeskype
-Attended Tim’s talk in Geophys discussion
-Extra bits and bobs related to preparation for tomorrows Tapeskype
Wed Aug 22 @ VIC (8/16)
-Changed the minimum filter period to 10s
-Re downloaded all the geonet response information
-Added station locations for Hobitts OBS broadband stations, Stephen Bannister's stations, the SAHKE broadband transect, and removed some of the redundant stations near Ruapehu
-Processed waveforms for event 2018p130600 and created misfit maps for that event, as well as 2014p240655
-Emailed Yoshi for feedback
Tue Aug 21 @ GNS (11/16)
-Got misvis working on GNS computer
-Ouputted plots and showed them to Yoshi, discussed next steps for work and slight adjustments to current work
-Started working on data depiction and turning adjoing builder into class
Mon Aug 20 @ VIC (1130/17)
-Semi confirmation for AGU18 flights through APX
-Started adding histograms to corkBoard
-Added a colorbar to mapmaker
Fri Aug 17 @ VIC (10/16)
-fixed some pyasdf saving 
-working on generating misfit maps
-creating cork objects to help aggregate misfit information from pyasdf 
Thu Aug 16  @ VIC (1045/18)
-PyASDF saving and figure saving in adjoint builder
-Started working on misfit maps
-Met for AGU18 accomodation talk
-Went to Jameys lunchtime talk
Wed Aug 15 @ VIC (915/1650)
-Wrote student page for SGEES
-Added more plotting capability to windowmaker to add adjoint sources
-misfit taper config for adjoint source creation
-cleaned up adjointbuilder
-went to Dom’s practice talk
Tue Aug 14 @ GNS (830/1530)
-Cleaned up adjoint builder parameter dictionary and verbosity added
-Cleaned up window plotter to include stalta and waterlevel and cleaner formatting
-Met w/ Yoshi and recapped last two weeks and set goals for upcoming work
Mon Aug 13 @ VIC (10/1640)
-Reorganized file structures and cleaning up files
-Emails to John, Yoshi and Celine for catchup and tieing up loose ends
-Started reading about classes in python, to be used in adjoint builder if necessary
-Worked on adding pyadjoint output into pyasdf outputs of adjointbuilder
Fri Aug 10 Day off
Thu Aug 9 @ VIC (930/17)
-Finished adjoint tomography presentation
-Presented adjoint tomography presentation
Wed Aug 8 @ VIC (930/17?)
-Worked on adjoint tomography presentation
Tue Aug 7 @ VIC (945/1830)
-Worked on adjoint tomography presentation from scratch
Mon Aug 6 @ GNS (830/13) / @ VIC (1530/2030)
-Attended GeoNet hazards analysis lectures (9-1030)
-Emailed Carl regarding adjoint tomo, emailed Yoshi regarding thursday talk
-Rough outline of Thursday talk
-Added stalta plotting to adjointbuilder quickly, could not test, missing files
-Read Ch. 4 of Vipul’s thesis
-@Vic polished off and submitted magscale manuscript
Fri Aug 3 - Day off
Thu Aug 2 @ VIC (11/17)
-Morning volunteer at fruit and vege coop
-Worked on PYASDF capability in adjoint builder
Wed Aug 1 @ VIC (930/1845)
-Finished magnitude scale paper (finished...), sent to coauthors
Tue Jul 31 @ VIC (1030/14)
-Finished abstract, sent to John
-Helped Kenny with meshing
-Talked to Monika about travel funds
-Magscale work til 830
Mon Jul 30 @ VIC (945/16)
-Emailed Carl and Vipul regarding abstract for AGU and visualization tools
-Helped Kenny with meshing tools
-Finished active faults on mapmaker
-Working on magnitude scale paper
Fri Jul 27 @ VIC (14/16)
-Worked on adjointBuilder
-Added active faults to mapMaker
-Tried to add STA/LTA to windowMaker but didn’t work
Thu Jul 26 @ GNS (10/15)
-Attended Lunchtime seismo talks, talked to Bill Fry
-Wrote AGU abstract draft
-Met with Yoshi and chatted about work to do while he is on holiday etc.
-Left to Vic to attend seminar
Wed Jul 25 @ VIC (9/1730)
-Prepared for John/Yoshi meeting, printed out figures and wrote down work to date 
-Finished mapmaker visualization and started working on figure merging
-Met with John and Yoshi and discussed current work and plan for the next few months
Tue Jul 24 @ VIC (1020/18)
-Reprocessed NGLL7 correctly and plotted the differences, works now and ready to show
-Talked to Kenny about matlab scripts
-Finished waveform plotting tool for adjointBuilder, 75% done with mapmaker, need to test and get the kinks out. Should be ready by tomorrow?
Mon Jul 23 @ VIC (930/16)
-Sent Yoshi converted ascii files for his duration paper
-Signed up for mailing lists to get more announcements
-Figured out problem with NGLL plots, reran NGLL7 simulation
-Reorganized specfem run folder on Kupe
-Began working on misVis, misfit visualization tools, hopefully can set up as a separate repo 
Fri Jul 20 @ Field (730/22)
-Install CAPT
-Service MNHR, PORI
Thu Jul 19 @ GNS (930/1745)
-Quick data conversion for Yoshi
-Rewrote plotppsd script for easier push buttoning, changed formatting for better visualization with all stations plotted. Changed script so you can plot multi components and also multiple field sessions together
-Outputted combined ppsd plots for all stations and all times, determined a few stations to remove for the next fieldwork
-Finished NGLL plots and added cross correlation and better annotations
-Updated github readme and file structure
-Meeting with Yoshi talking about current work and agu planning
-Meeting with Yoshi and Jonathan about potential fieldwork tomorrow, packing for fieldwork
Wed Jul 18 @ VIC (14/17)
-Finished adjoint kernel creation and smoothing, works now
-Got MRP estimation working, moving on to visulization tools
Tue Jul 17 @ VIC (830/17)
-Finalized duration composites and fixed up after suggestion from Yoshi to add depth
-Ran smoothing on beta kernel and visualized alpha kernel
Mon Jul 16 @ GNS (815/17)
-Finished up duration figues, more event processing and composite creation
-Met with Yoshi and discussed figures 
-Started PPSD creation for June fieldwork
-Met with Jonathan and Yoshi to talk about castlepoint deploy
-Started fieldwork prep for Friday potential outing
Fri Jul 13 @ VIC (9/17)
-Cleaned up duration plots as per requests from Yoshi
Thu Jul 12 @ GNS (740/1240)
-Finished up duration script, fully working as a single push button process (more or less) and outputs requisite parts to be assembled in gimp. 
-Finished filling in station/battery information for the new June fieldwork processed data
-Went to Dom’s talk on double benioff zones
Wed Jul 11 @ VIC (11/1830)
-90% done with duration scripts. Waveform plotting, mapping, moment tensors, duration coloring all working. Need to put final touches on top
Tue Jul 10 @ VIC (10/17)
-Worked on duration script rewrites to produce plots for yoshis paper
-Phone call from Yoshi to update on work to include OBP sensors
-Attended Rupert’s inaugaral professor talk
Mon Jul 9 @ GNS (10/18)
-Worked on adjoint kernel, tried suggestions from Yoshi but still running into problems, next attempt will be full new version of specfem run
-NGLL5 vs 7 simulations and waveform plotting for determining minimum resolvable period, weird time shift in data needs to be solved
-Slight modification to adjointbuilder script, laying foundation for new visualization tools
-Met with Yoshi to discuss Duration work, set out a plan for next two days to make paper figure of small magnitude events recorded in basin wedge
-Reran PROCESS2 June fieldwork data after reindexing, currently processing but looks good
Fri Jul 6 @ GNS (10/15)
-Radiator trouble this day, short day
-Skype meeting with Tape et al. discussing next steps in adjoint tomography problem. 
-Meeting with Yoshi afterwards to further discuss next steps for our work
Thu Jul 5 @ VIC (915/17)
-Finished ETOPO1 mesh and ran a simulation on it
-Created synthetic waveform compare plots, map plots with source receiver lcoations
-Created composite images with the above figures
-Determined problem with SRTM15P meshing procedure, single NaN in the file
Wed Jul 4 @ GNS (11/1615)
-Uploaded Fathom flashcards and started conversion
-Updated battery health and started looking at days alive for batteries
-Checked on mesh, did not finish, not sure why
-Met with Yoshi and discussed what should be ready for the Friday meeting with Carl, as well as my problems with meshing and with adjoint simulations. Some steps to try and work out why these problems are occurring
-Started running ETOPO1 mesh with new dimensions to provide waveform comparison plots to show on Friday. Hopefully meshing finishes by tomorrow. 
-Short day today, planning for a long day tomorrow
Tue Jul 3 @ VIC (915/1515)
-Started kernel simulation, hit the time wall with 1:30 runtime so bumped up to 2:30 but stuck in the queue for simulations so on hold
-Still waiting for the SRTM15P mesh to finish 
-Plotted topography files and topography differences, faffed around trying to figure out how but it was stupid simple in the end. Produced some topography difference images to show off
-Started writing scripts for mesh comparison plots, including waveform comparison, map plotting and combination of the two
Mon Jul 2 @ VIC (10/18)
-Started new mesh generation for SRTM15P at 1km spacing
-Worked on visualization of alpha kernel and smoothing and visulization of smoothed beta kernel for homogeneous halfspace, successful and moved on to kernel simulations on NZ mesh
-Minor hiccup in forward simulations of NZ mesh, restarted simulation but will check tmrw
Fri Jun 29 @ VIC (12/17)
-Post fieldwork report with site notes and lambing seasons scheduling, site descriptions, battery info and flashcard info update
-Fieldwork expenses
-Started reading Komatitsch and Tromp (2002)
Mon - Thu Jun 25-28
-FATHOM fieldwork
Fri Jun 22 @ GNS (10/1710)
-New mesh simulation finished, compared synthetics with other meshes and discussed differences with Yoshi
-Finished bash script for config creation and meshing with geocubit, meshing is now semi automated
-Field work prep: loaded up LUV and ute, battery labelling battery charging and game plan discussion
-Met with Yoshi to discuss current status of work, and post fieldwork work. work. work
Thu Jun 21 @ GNS (10/1720)
-Finished new mesh and merge all good, put mesh onto kupe and started simulation 
-Swapped batteries and voltage testing Bannister/Fry batteries, set game plan for fieldwork
-Called landowners for permissions and to talk about lambing season, created a new map with driving routes and set up to dos and plans for fieldwork
-Looked at alpha kernel output with Yoshi
-Started creating new mesh with SRTM15 data, creating a run script to automate the process but doesn’t work, still need to do something with it
Wed Jun 20 @ VIC (1345/19)
-Checked on running mesh, finished meshing all components but was not able to merge
    -Error may have been due to incorrect config file inputs, changed and rerunning
-Figured out proper commands to create moho and topo files and to choose spacing, created different topo/moho files for SRTM15P, SRTM30P and ETOPO1 at different spacings, need to mesh them and run simulations on them
-Got adjoint simulations to work, realized two problems
need a separate runs script for kernel simulations because the current run script reruns the simulation from scratch and deletes the forward simulation - new run script created and works well
xcombine is an mpi process (how was i supposed to know that?) and needs to be run with srun with -n 1 processor, and not by direct call. Also since the kernel simulation wasn’t running proper, the alpha kernel files weren’t there, which led me to understanding number 1
*short day but big steps through, I thought I would be stuck on this problem for a hot minute
Tue Jun 19 @ GNS (11/1730)
-Met with Jonathan and Yoshi to crimp new battery cables
-Ran kernel simulation but hit trouble with combining the outputs
-Figured out problems regarding STR30+ mesh, started running new mesh generation at 1km spacing
Mon Jun 18 @ GNS (1015/15)
-Got adjointbuilder working on GNS machine
-Swapped batteries on charge with Yoshi and voltage checked Bannister/Fry batteries
-Worked with Yoshi on getting pyadjoint and pyflex to work on his machine
-Talked with Yoshi about tomography problem, next steps and road to AGU abstract submit
-Talked with Jonathan about upcoming fieldwork and prep (i.e. battery cables and battery loading etc.)
Fri Jun 15 @ VIC (1230/1745)
-Checked the new mesh being created, still running but error on some of the processes
-Finished preliminary work on adjointbuilder, works now for geonet data
-Started working on simulation optimization on Kupe, symlinks and removing fluff etc.
Thu Jun 14 @ VIC (145/19)
-Determined new mesh bounds to push out into water to try to avoid edge effects
-Created new topo/moho files with new bounds using SRTM30_PLUS topography file
-Started mesher on GNS machine with new topo/moho files
-Ran two simulation with adjoint settings turned on for use in kernel simulations
-Started working on adjoint source build script using Pyflex and Pyadjoint
Wed Jun 13 @ GNS (930/1730)
-Attempted work on adjoint simulation but simulations wouldn’t run
-Acquired STRM30_PLUS topography file, but need matlab function at vic to run mesh gen
-Looked at waveforms and PPSD for stations in MarchMay deploy for MATT relocation
-Talked to Jerome about SC3, figured out first steps on event location
Tue Jun 12 @ VIC
-Finished magscale manuscript
Mon Jun 11 @ GNS (1015/17)
-Met with Yoshi and talked about work and next steps
-Met with Yosh and Jonathan and talked about next field work
-Set batteries on charge
-Ran simulation on new mesh and compared outputs to old mesh, good agreement but discrepencies for stations on boundary
-Looked at waveforms for MATT and other new stations, looked at PPSD comparisons
-Reading about tomography in Liu et al 2012 (tectonophysics)
Mon Jun 4 - Fri Jun 9 @ VIC
-Working on magscale manuscript
Fri Jun 1 @ VIC (10/1730)
-Reran matlab topo moho script with new dimensions and generated new files, started mesh run to create new mesh
-Edits to magnifytremor script to include surface wave plotting and Rm values in windowing
Thu May 31 @ GNS (930/16)
-Met with Yoshi and showed him results for tremor, got new ideas on how to pursue this
-Also talked about meshing, path forward for creating a new mesh but scripts won’t work on GNS matlab so need to go to VIC to continue
-Attended a talk regarding bio markers for temperature proxies on fault cores
-Worked on tremor script to show small time windows to get a better look at potential signals
Wed May 30 @ VIC (10/16) +feeling sick
-Quick look at Porangahau swarm, nothing noteworthy
-Worked on mesh generation scripts, converting latlon into UTM60 and giving the proper aspect ratios
-Magnify tremor script cleaner plotting, showing Rm values over two sigma
Tue May 29 @ VIC (915/1635)
-Mass generation of CMTsolution files from tomCat for future simulation runs
-Reorganized kupe file structure to be more streamline for mass runs
-Wrote a bash script to automatically create new specfem run folders on kupe
-Started working on mesh generation, looking for topo files and conversion of map coordinates from latlon to UTM
Mon May 28 @ VIC (915/17)
-Mesh generation finished, finalized mesh merging and creation of new material file, ran a simulation on kupe with new mesh and it matches yoshi’s mesh, time to move on to redefining mesh for new area
-Finished processing PPSD for previous fieldwork, rewrote some of the scripts to be more modular, plotted station relocation PPSD 
-Worked on magnifytremor script for more in depth plotting of tremor signals, work ongoing
Fri May 25 @ VIC (9/1715)
-Started a mesh run on GNS workstation
-Finished reading paper by Yabe 2012? on tremors, started reading papers by Ide and Bill Fry on tremors
-Added some functionality to tremor script and started working on separate function for tremor investigation
Thu May 24 @ VIC (10/17)
-Made some superficial changes to pathnames after some folder renaming
-Prepared for meeting with John and Yoshi
-Worked on some PPSD of FATHOM data for meeting
-Attended a talk on seismic cycle simulations of fault rupture
Wed May 23 @ GNS (9/1615)
-Met with Yoshi and discussed meshing, figured out what was wrong and was able to run a full simulation on the new mesh. Met Yoshi again to discuss what are the important sections of meshing and discussed short term plans for creating new meshes for NZ
-Fully worked on progress report for meeting tomorrow with John and Yoshi
-Worked on noise analysis script and supplmentary functions, working and running for latest RDF deplyoment
-Organized research todos, full docket for next weeks or so
Tue May 22 @ VIC (9/17)
-Indepth look at new meshes, homogeneous halfspace and nz mesh
-Got homogeneous halfspace to work, still working on NZ mesh
-Started working on waveform envelope plotting for tremor detection
Mon May 21 @ GNS (930/1630)
-Met with Yoshi and talked about the finished mesh and the output
-Worked on testing the homogeneous halfspace mesh and NZ mesh on kupe against the original meshes. Running into problems that need to be looked at
-Fixed Store file for Taurus 606 and processed data
-Began working on updated PPSD script to look at noise of new stations
Fri May 18 @ GNS (845/17)
-Met with Yoshi and worked for 2-3 hours on meshing with Trellis. At the end a mesh was created for homogeneous halfspace and started working for NZ mesh
-Worked on convolution Rsync
-Mocked up a FATHOM logo
Thu May 17 @ VIC (915/)
-Reorganized some files on convolution
-Cleaned up site and sensor field notes on google drive
-Updated dataless response file 
-Reran 2018p130600 simulation to include RDF data for obsynth comparisons
-Worked on array names
-Started working on obsynth comparisons but hit a roadblock on data avilability
Wed May 16 @ GNS (930/1630)
-Converted all RDF data and looked at initial data quality as well as daily measures
    -Updated binder file
    -Updated site notes on google drive
-Looked at Tremor results and picked an initial batch of days to investigate and fine tune paremeters
-Started working on new names for RDF array
Tue May 15 @ GNS (8/1730)
-4WD training course (Day 2)
-Array acronyms
Mon May 14 @ GNS (815/1705)
-Compiled expenses and gave receipts to Yoshi
-Pulled battery off chargers and short discussion with Yoshi about fieldwork
-Uploaded store files to RDF folder
-4WD training course (Day 1)
Tue May 8 - Fri May 11
-RDF fieldwork 
Mon May 7 @ GNS (10/17)
-Ran tremor script, discussed some preliminary results with Yoshi and Ito-san, got some ideas on next steps for qualifying tremor detections
-Ran simulation for 2017p708412, obsynth comparisons for this event as well as the 2018p130600 event
-Field work packing and extra calls for fieldwork
-Organizing and packing for fieldwork
Fri May 4 @ GNS (840/1630) 1.5 hour climb 
-Called farmers for fieldwork
-Ran 2018 simulation 
-Helped Yoshi put batteries on charge, talked about fieldwork
-Attended talk about melange slip simulations
Thu May 3 @ VIC (?)
-Worked on magscale presentation
-Ran tremor script
-Can’t remember, need to look at notebook at Vic
-Gave magscale presentation
-Ran simulation for 2016p669820
Wed May 2 @ VIC (1050/19)
-Found broadband Sahke data and downloaded to Vic machine
-Added Sahke data to Station file in Kupe
-Ran simulation for 2016 event
-Worked on minor changes to tremor array that didnt end up working
-Organized simulation run data such as CMTSOLUTION writing and pulling moment tensor information both from GCMT and from GEONET
-Started working on availablestations script which prints out all stations available for a given event id from geonet
-Worked on magscale presentation for group meeting
Tue May 1 @ GNS (855/1620) worked through lunch
-Met with Yoshi and discussed upcoming fieldwork, meshing and current work, as well as magscale paper ideas and some ideas about running specfemglobe to simulate teleseismics (non-priority idea)
-Added in the 2-sigma calculation to Tremor script and fixed some bugs that were sitting around, hopefully works now and can be run through for the entire dataset (prob not lol)
-Attempted to work on meshing but ran into problems regarding naming and geocubit vs cubit vs trelis. Planning to talk to Kenny to see what his workflow is like.
-Emailed Jerome the stationxml files
Mon Apr 30 @ VIC (845/1650)
-Continued full on rewriting of tremor script. Better exception catches so that script will run uninterrupted through the entire dataset
-Some testing to determine what the fastest method of preprocessing was
-Still need to change the 2-sigma calculations which is taking too many earthquakes into account
-Created CMTsolutions for all tengoodevents
-Read Specfem3D meshing chapter
Fri Apr 27 @ VIC (9/1545)
-Full on rewriting of tremor script to take into account multiple lengths of ratio array calculations
-Some time spent determining which technique to use (i.e. Satoshi  vs. Sit)
Thu Apr 26 @ GNS (9/1730) 1hour lunch climb
-Created mapping module for future generalized mapping needs
-Finalized tengoodevents list, ready for simulation preparation
-Ran modified tremor detection, so far no detections - planned changes ahead
-Read loosely 1 chapter of Aki richards
-Partly read Sit et al 2012
Wed Apr 25 @ VIC (930/1730) Anzac Day
-Rearranged folder and file naming of RDF data to play nice with SC3
-Changed dataless format to match RDF data
-Worked on magscale paper
Tue Apr 24 @ GNS (915/17)
-Met with jerome, had ~1.5 hour walkthrough of SC3, outlined some objectives to change things before our next meet, upon which we will attempt a trial run at event detection
-Checked on Taurus, not working, sent log files in email to Nanometrics
-Continued to fix Tremor script, currently in a not working state, but hanging by a thread 
Mon Apr 23 @ VIC (915/1630)
-Prepped for meeting with John, ran through old work and printed out all figures created to date, wrote down prep notes etc.
-Looked at tremor script outputs, unconvincing plots, after reading literature, realized some of the methods (either via Satoshi’s script or via my interpretation) are incorrect, started adjustments on script to bring it more in line with the correct method outlined by Sit et al. 2012
-Met with John and talked about work to date, he gave me some papers to read, told me to look at proposals of other students to get an idea of what to do for mine, proposed that in the future I could do some TA work, discussed the proposal and how I might approach the next months of my work
-Read Gomberg et al 2010 regarding tremor signals, have a better idea of what to look for
-Started reading Sit et al 2012 regarding frequency scan method, to get a better understanding of the method I’m using
Fri Apr 20 @ VIC (910/17)
-Hammered out kinks in Tremor script, should run through without problem now
-Talked to Kenny about specfem stuff
Thu Apr 19 @ GNS (910/1730)
-Returned rental car
-Talked with Yoshi, recap about what we were doing and what to do next
-Worked on tremor script for better plotting and including more stations, still need to run batch job to look at multiple days as well as night time only to avoid cultural noise
-Looked at Taurus, set up for long period testing over weekend in battery room
Tue Apr 17 - Wed Apr 18
-LUV driving course in New Plymouth
Tue Apr 10 - Mon Apr 16
-SAMBA/COSA fieldwork 
Fri Apr 6 2018 @ GNS (9/17)
-Started tremor script staggered day plotting and processing
-Skype call with UAF, discussed next steps for tomography problem with Carl et al
-Tested faulty taurus one last time, sent email to nanometrics outlining what I know
-Preparing for field work etc.
Thu Apr 5, 2018 @ GNS/VIC (920/1830) 1hour climb, 1hour between vic/gns
-Ran tremor script for multiple days, adjusted plotting
-Showed Yoshi tremor plots, new ideas for how to proceed
-Talked to Yoshi about upcoming work for next 1-2 months
-Planned out LUV training, need to commit bookings
-Read Fry and Shelly papers on tremors, need to read more before making assumptions
Wed Apr 4, 2018 @ VIC (845/1645)
-Finished working on Tremor script, needs to be run
-Started event checker for a 10goodevents list
-Planning out LUV training 
Tue Apr 3, 2018 @ VIC (920/18)
-Worked on tremor script
-Talked to Kenny about Specfem
Sat Mar 31, 2018 @ VIC (11/18)
-Ported Satoshis mFSM code to python, semi-working, still requires some tuning 

Good Friday Mar 30

Thu Mar 29, 2018 @ GNS/VIC (930/16)
-Lunch with Satoshi and Yoshi
-Informal end-of-2-months meeting with Yoshi, discussed the future work i’ll be addressing in the next month or two and what I’ve accomplished so far
-Skimmed 2 chapters of Aki Richards
-Started reading Maggi 2009 regarding flexwin
-Went to VIC to attend group dicussion
Wed Mar 28, 2018 @ VIC (10/1735)
-Responded to call about LUV training
-Created tomCat, catalog of all events with the appropriate moment tensor information organized
-updated generate_CMTSOLUTION to work with tomCat
-before leaving, ran matlab script, will let run overnight and check tomorrow
-learned how to work with Pandas
Tue Mar 27, 2018 @ GNS (930/1715)
-Made unsuccessful calls to LUV schools
-Talked to Satoshi about output of matlab script
-Looked at Bannister data and did a quick organization of events by potential quality
-Checked temporary site, Taurus still faulty
-Started run of matlab script with longer dataset (slow, needs to be run on computer?)
Mon Mar 26, 2018 @ GNS (930/17) Slow day
-Found SAHKE network code
-Inspected faulty Taurus and set up temporary station
-Created a list of stations for SeisComp3
-Ran MATLAB scripts from Satoshi
Fri Mar 23, 2018 @ GNS (10/1530)
-Checked and rearranged RDF data and fixed overlapping waveforms
-Looked at 2018p130600 event for RDF data
-Plotted PPSD for RDF jan-Mar
Thu Mar 22, 2018 @ GNS (930/1812)
-Reran RDF data through apollo for 1 day sections
-Reorganized RDF data into SEED format file system
-Compared new synthetics against old and observations, Yoshi says looks good
-Talked to Yoshi about synthetics and beachballs
-Met John Ristau, Jerome ? and Matt Gustenberger
-Talked to Jerome about setting up Seiscomp3 on my computer
-Talked to Yoshi about collection of data for tomography - via Ristau’s catalog, Bannister’s temp array, our temp array etc.
-Found some mistakes in beachball plotting (fixed) still discrepancies between Ristau and GCMT solutions for some events
-Looked at faulty Taurus, bootup and shutdown okay, next step test longer time with sensor 
-Began catalog collection of events for use in tomography
-Backed up RDF Jan-Mar18 on convolution harddrive 




Daily Dids (24.1.2018 - 21.3.18)
Copied from notebook:
Wed Jan 24, 2018
-Paid vic fees and got contract signed and submitted
-Met w/ Yoshi to discuss Vic details
-Read paper on noise analysis
-Began writing noise analysis code
-Finished rough noise analysis code > need to test w/ long time periods
-Showed yoshi rough output of ocde
Fri Jan 26, 2018
-Meeting w/ Yoshi about yesterday’s meeting w/ John > discussed need for training
-Wrote script for fetching geonet data via FDSN and arranging folder order
-Wrote script to analyze PPSD of mseed data
-Meeting w/ Yoshi discussing the new simulation hes running (low velocity zone at subduction interface)
-New ideas for comparing seismometers and accelerometers
Mon Jan 28, 2018
-Yoshi explained that 40% reduction of velocity reproduced the “ringing” seen after Kaikoura
-Created a script to create spectrograms (remove response, filter, etc.)
-Created spectrograms of Kaikoura earthquake for strong motion (accelerometers) for inland and coastal, visible differences in spectra for coastal sites
Tue Jan 30, 2018 (IN-9:45/OUT-18)
-Showed yoshi spectrogram figures and completed PSD
-Made marker map of PCC data to show where secondary energy is prominent > need to quantify this
-Realized data lives internally > rewrote scripts to fetch data internally rather than download via FDSN
-Put work onto github (github.com/bch0w/spectral)
-Yoshi says PSD plots of BKZ and KNZ very interesting, lots of high freq noise at KNZ, why?
Wed Jan 31, 2018 (IN-9:30/OUT-17)
-Finished yearly PPSD’s for multiple geonet permanent BB stations, combined into a comparative plot and plotted color on map
-Created simple amplitude based criteria for spectrogram thresholds, created new plotting scheme to show off thresholds
-Finished generalized file ID grabber for geonet internal data
-Began monthly high sampling rate (seasonal variation?) PPSD analysis for BB stations
Thurs Feb 1, 2018 (IN-9:15/OUT-17)
-Created new threshold criteria for spectrograms based on integral of squared amplitude but it didn’t capture the effects. Instead went back to amplitude threshold but with tweaked parameters
-Created gradient maps to represent ground shake duration
-Showed Jonathan PPSD plots, began processing for all north island stations to show him
-Read paper Williams et al. about fault geometry
Fri Feb 2, 2018 (IN-9:45/OUT-16:05)
-Created dataless response information for temporary stations
-Began noise spectra analysis for temporary stations, will finish over weekend
-Finished PPSD plot for 2015 all geonet permanent BB stations
-Began reading TAPE datamine paper (SALMON)

Begin type-only daily dids
Mon Jan 2, 2018 (IN-9:15/OUT-18:30 + commute Vic>GNS)
-Got set up with login/swipecard/computer at vic
-Started setting up computer at vic with necessary settings and software
-@GNS Met w/ Yoshi to discuss Vic
-Looked at PPSD of temporary array > 5 stations with pretty high noise that may need to be moved, some stations (OROC, TEAC?) have anomalously high noise, even compared with colocated geonet stations
    -Need to look at waveform data to determine which stations actually need moving
-Sent email to Jonathan about geonet permanent station PPSD’s > followup?
-Ran noise analysis for horizontal components of two temporary stations to see differences from vertical (N comp on RD10 and RD06 - not much difference, general behavior similar)
-Began writing script for looking at temporary stations earthquake data > weird timing, not UTC?
-Transferred all notes into research notebook and transferred all to-do’s into to-do list notebook
Tue Feb 6, 2018 @ VIC
-Holiday; more or less finished setting up computer at vic to be able to effectively do work.
-Worked on magscale paper > got a working comparison script going
Wed Feb 7, 2018 @ GNS (IN-9:45/OUT-17:30?)
-Bought an external harddrive and loaded it up with RDF array data to bring to Vic
-Finished writing waveform script to look at event data for RDF - was having trouble finding the events, problem arising from filter choice, water level choice and choice of unit (displacement vs velocity)
-Plotted waveforms for 3-4 events for all temporary stations in RDF for both displacement and velocity. Noticed that ~5 stations exhibit high noise where the earthquake signal cannot be seen, whereas it is clear in all other stations. These stations coincide with the ones picked from the PPSD analysis, however there is 1(?) station that looked okay in the PPSD’s but exhibits high waveform noise > need to show to Yoshi and talk to him about it
-Looked at variation of coastal stations vs a baseline composed of non-coastal stations. Variations from the non-coastal baseline were not very significant at the 10s period of interest. This is for year long data, however, so seasonal variation should be explored to rule out this variation.
-Because year long PPSD npz arrays cannot be split by time (I think?), rerunning PPSD for each month for every GEONET permanent station with a decimation factor of 5 (for faster run time). Plan to explore the seasonal variation of noise of these permanent stations tomorrow.
-Finished the day by finishing Tape’s paper on SALMON
Thu Feb 8, 2018 @ GNS (IN-9:30/OUT-17:10)
-Created variation plots for RDF temporary stations, showing large differences in energy at periods longer than 10 seconds. Will look at horizontal components next
-Processing finished for monthly PPSD of geonet permanent stations. Created a script to separate PPSDs by month and by season and take averages, plotted seasons against one another. Not as much variation as expected, however winter storms may not be as prominent around NZ as they are in other areas where this analysis has been done.
-Edited waveform script to plot all three components, and made it more visually representative of the data we are looking at
-Met with Yoshi to talk about scripts, showed him waveform plots and noise plots for temporary stations and we made some decisions on which temporary stations to relocate - waiting to talk to Jonathan to come up with a plan
-Still waiting on highrate GPS data to add to our datafiles
Fri Feb 9, 2018 @ VIC (IN-9:30/OUT-17:05)
-Uploaded all data from convolution onto imac, reorganized file structures
-Added filepathing to python scripts to simplify working at both GNS and Vic
-Looked at raw earthquake data for temporary stations but need to examine more in depth and with the proper response files (forgot to put them on the harddrive?)
-Got NESI account email sorted
-Invited to South Island field work the week of Feb 19th > decided to go
-Read Donna Eberhart-Philips 2010 paper about a 3-D seismic velocity model for NZ, realized 2012 and 2015 papers more important and relevant for work. Need to print and read those papers.
Mon Feb 12, 2018 @ VIC(915/1030) & GNS(11/1750) Lunchtime climb (1210/115)
-Met with Tim Stern around 10 to discuss fieldwork. Due to delays down south, I may not have to go; he will let me know in the next few days. He also explained the project as imaging of a young subduction zone under Fiordlands
-Adjusted pathnames on Vic computer and added an FDSN data downloader in getdata 
-Went to GNS afterwards - worked on temporary array data: plotted PPSD for RD10 and RD11 (kidnapper and kahu) to see how their noise levels compared to the colocated geonet permanent stations. Also plotted earthquake data for each of these stations to see how the waveforms looked compared to one another. Emailed to Yoshi and Jonathan
-Worked on Visa reapplication - filling out forms and printing out documents
-Organized thoughts on what I’m working on currently and how each separate piece of work relates to the bigger picture
-Began processing of East and North components of geonent permanent stations by month to look at seasonal variations of horizontal components ala Tape (SALMON paper)
Tue Feb 13, 2018 @VIC(1030/515)
-Reworked Spectrogram script to work on Vic computers with fdsn downloading
-Created a function to output streams and inventories regardless of workstation
-Created noise spectra plots for all short period sensors colocated with RDF array
-Made a plot of all temp stations and short period sensors for Jonathan
-Submitted visa reapplication.
-slow day
Wed Feb 14, 2018 @ VIC
-PhD orientation all day
Thu Feb 15, 2018 @ GNS (915/18)
-Created individual comparison PPSD plots of colocated RDF stations and short period stations, sent to Yoshi and Jonathan
-Met with Yoshi, discussed work necessary for slow slip workshop including refined duration criteria, coastal variations of broadband stations, plotting earthquake data for M5 events to try to show basin effects etc (in notebook)
-Began working on duration criteria, refined to use integrals of 0 to 1 normed waveforms, also incorporated horizontal components as a vector norm, still trying to find the best representation of the duration
-Met with Yoshi and Jonathan to discuss RDF stations. Decided to move Kidnapper completely, shuffle TEAC and KAHU within their sites, will test a new sensor to see if it can be deployed. Comments made about instrument deployment style effects on noise levels, i.e. vault deployment vs direct burial, black box vs cables running off etc.
-Got SSH permissions for my computer to be able to log in remotely to GNS servers, set up my GNS email account 
-Got SSH access to Kupe, set up account and had Yoshi show me how to set up Specfem. Will begin trying to do example simulations to get used to the interface, etc.
Fri Feb 16, 2018 @ GNS (923/18 w/ climb12/1330)
-Finished work on duration criteria. Spent some time going back to integral criteria to try to determine duration, which worked better than the integration of amplitude peaks
-Yoshi then told me it’s better to use the amplitude criteria but then to collect the values of dt along the trace to have a final criteria in terms of time. This worked much better and gives a strong looking map that backs up the idea that there is a basin. Stations to the north exhibit long shaking as well, however they are also farther from the source, and shaking duration (due to dispersion) is a function of distance from the event
-Made plots and text files for this duration criteria for Kaikoura, but also for 4 small events (M5 roughly). Have yet to make maps of these events but the processing is done.
Mon Feb 19, 2018 @VIC (910/1745)
-Fixed merging for the deviating spectral folders
-Created the ‘global’ function event_stream to easily grab data streams regardless of work place or type of data
-Looked at the 4 M5 ish events that Yoshi sent by email; made duration maps for each with broadband seismometers. One event looks really good, the rest look a bit strange and the duration criteria needs to be investigated. Waveform plots are at GNS though so either wait or get them to Vic somehow
-Attempted homogeneous_halfspace example on specfem but ran into some problems with mpirun, need to readdress tomorrow
-Started work on creating coastal baseline plots (again). Lots of time spent trying to average out the PPSD arrays because they are separated by month so all months of all stations and each component needed to be addressed. Got working arrays in the end and the plotting script works. Needs further work.
Tue Feb 20, 2018 @ HOME (915/16) Slow day
-Read Donnas paper (Eberhart et al 2012) halfway, on laptop
-Tried to run simulations on Kupe, figured out how the batch system works but ran into account problems that I couldnt run Sbatch commands. Sent an email to NESI support looking for help
-Set up getdata scripts to be more streamlined, got rid of vic_or_gns function, new functions do everything automatically so that only one function needs to be called- also works on laptop. Should streamline everything
Wed Feb 21, 2018 @ GNS (910/18)
-Stopped in at Vic in the morning to grab harddrive and notebooks
-At GNS worked on duration maps, cleaned up waveform plots and made a composite map to show Yoshi. Also finalized the horizontal component seasonal plots and got the baseline variation functionality working. Printed everything out and met with Yoshi to discuss.
-Durations looks good, one event is too close to all the stations so no long period (~10s) energy captured, so that will be scrapped. 3 events still. Need to change filter band to better capture the energy we are interested in. By Friday need to make maps with seismograms on them for Yoshi’s presentation
-Talked about using vertical component as horizontal components show some long duration coda as well that we can’t explain at the moment. 
-Talked about Noise spectra, which seem to confirm these findings to some degree. Vertical components show increased 10s energy around the coast (but only ~5dB). Horizontal components tend to agree with larger amplitudes (~10dB), however one non-basin station shows very high noise, which is also in agreement to what we see in the waveforms (very noise waveforms at around 5-10s energy)
-Also talked about waveform modelling. Will move on to modelling these M5 events when I am familiar with specfem, talked about different meshes we could use.
-Talked about field work, things looking set up. 
-Began working on the presentation figures with new filter bands. Left running, will finish Friday morning.
Thu Feb 22, 2018 @ VIC (830/230 PhD induction) (230/1930)
-PhD induction in the morning
-Worked on figure for SSW, creating duration maps with common colorbar and putting it all together in one figure. Sent a mockup to Yoshi, with everything on one figure. Could probably split that up into multiple slides since its a presentation, will wait to see what he says.
Fri Feb 23, 2018 @ VIC (930/1730)
-Finalized figure for Yoshi’s presentation, rearranged some plots and changed the time axis for all of the plots to share the same 0-500 limits for better comparison
-Looked at two other events for potential use in duration criteria, however they weren’t convincing as the other plots we had made so they were left out.
-These events did, however, pique interest in the amplitude boosting effects of sedimentary basins as the 2008 event showed larger amplitudes in basin stations
-Created plots with peak amplitudes as colors (also linking lines that denoted the source receiver distance). 2008 event looked good, with 1.5-2x larger amplitudes at the basin station
-Sent this off to Yoshi however he said it may be due to directivity and radiation pattern effects since the events are so close to the stations (I need to read about these more to get a better idea of how they affect the resulting seismograms)
-Was able to run the homogeneous halfspace example on Kupe after much delay. Results match the reference seismograms so we are good to go for simulations
-Sent an email to John and Yoshi to set up a meeting next week about orienting PhD goals
-Started reading papers related to basin amplification and resonance effects


Mon/Tue Feb 26/27, 2018 @ Slow slip workshop
Meeting with John and Yoshi regarding my PhD:
-Need to submit my proposal within 12 months of starting. Because of Summer, December is a better submission time. This means a draft should be ready by late October or early November so it can be reviewed and edited by advisors etc.
    -Roughly 15-20 pages which outlines: 
1) the problem that I am trying to solve, 
2) that I have the skills, tool set and resources (data, programs, software) necessary to solve this problem, 
3) that I understand all the necessary background information to solve this problem, i.e. tectonic setting, geological composition, signal processing and seismological theory, knowledge about the underlying workings of the codes i’m using (i.e. spectral element method), rupture physics, the expected values of things like stress, velocities etc, the scales of quantities: i.e. temperature, pressure, length scales, time scales to be expected.
4) that I have already put in some legwork to making sure that i’m on track to being able to spend the next two years working efficiently, i.e. that I can download data, use the software i’m running, can interpret the results when they come out - related to the work i’ll be doing now to set up the tools and skills that i’ll need in the future
    -The proposal should outline 3-4 progressive questions that build atop one another.    The first question should be easy to answer, and we should already have an expectation for what that answer should be. This means I can answer the question relatively quickly and with confidence, so that I immediately have something to show for my work. The next 2 questions should be more difficult, perhaps we don’t know the answer, or are unsure of what it should be, requiring more work to understand what we get as results. The final question we answer should be something unknown, that we don’t have any ideas about and that we are interested in understanding - might not be answered, but should be proposed so that it can at least be addressed in some form during the thesis. 
-My problems should fit into the context of a bigger picture (e.g. Yoshi’s full project), but they should be standalone and understandable on their own.
-Should meet with John monthly or every other week to update him on my progress, more frequently for now to make sure that i’m starting out okay.
-PUBLICATIONS: Should have 2-3 publications by the end of my thesis. 1st publication, something smaller and easily publishable, within the first 18 months. The 2nd and 3rd publication should be submitted or accepted by the end of the PhD.
Wed Feb 28, 2018 @ VIC (930/530)
-Talked to ITS to get ssh access into Vic computer
-Produced refined variation plots for all component noise spectra for 2015
-Created numpy arrays for seasonal noise spectra 2015, also produced refined variation plots for these
-Added beachballs to duration maps from geonet moment tensor catalog
Thu Mar 1, 2018 @ GNS (930/1745)
-Transferred files and reorganized harddrive
-Finished reading Donnas 2012 paper on the Hikurangi margin
-Showed Yoshi variation plots - interesting behavior of coastal stations, cannot determine whether high noise signals are coming from basin effects or ocean effects. Need to look at potential seasonal variations
-Started processing for all GEONEt stations during the last 3 months (good weather) for use in variation plots. Data finished processing for all 3 components, needs to be compiled and run to create plots
-Read Rial’s 1992 paper on basin amplification by numerical modelling
-Seismometer testing with Yoshi. Broken Taurus seems to work fine now - decided to leave it recording over the weekend to see if there are any problems that may arise after a few days
-Sat down with Yoshi and was given an overview of how Specfem works. Showed me all the necessary parameter files and how to edit the source code if necessary. Ran simulation of an earthquake with and without attenuation - 18m to 44m difference in run time
Fri Mar 2, 2018 @ GNS (930/1650)
-Started working on different baseline plots to show variations based on percentiles but stopped after short meeting with Yoshi
-Talked to Yoshi about checking the results of the specfem simulation, about differences in CMT solution files and how to approach that, and the next simulations to run
-Wrote a script to convert ASCII outputs of specfem into mseed files
-Meeting with Yoshi Ito and Laura Wallace concerning the publication. I need to work on looking at HOBITSS data, simulations, spectrogram and noise characteristics for this paper.
Mon Mar 5, 2018 @ GNS (915/1745 w/ 1.5Hlunchclimb)
-Looked at attenuating vs nonattenuating outputs of specfem and made some figures
-Wrote function for MT conversion from XYZ to RTP (doesn’t work properly)
-Wrote function for convolving source time function with specfem outputs
-Spent time trying to figure out why mt conversion not working (no results)
-Wrote a function to output CMTSOLUTION files in the format necessary for specfem
-Checked on courtyard station
Tue Mar 6, 2018 @ VIC 
-First aid training course, full day
Wed Mar 7, 2018 @ GNS (930/17)
-Looked at Yoshi’s field plan and discussed it with Jonathan
-Wrote hobitss data analysis script for looking at and plotting the offshore obs data as well as onshore comparison data
-Edited some other scripts in the process to help the functionality, and created some globally usable functions as well
-Read Watts seamount subduction paper
Thu Mar 8, 2018 @ GNS (930/1730)
-Worked on synthetic preprocessing scripts
-Met with Yoshi and Jonathan to discuss field work
-Met with Yoshi to discuss research - talked about the direction of the basin paper (addition of sediment channel hypothesis) and updated on status of work
-Made calls to landowners for field work
-Ran simulation on kupe and fetched output data
-Wrote script for comparison of synthetic and observation data
Fri Mar 9, 2018 @ GNS (930/17?)
-Worked on comparisons of observations and synthetics
-Met with Yoshi and Jonathan to pack up for field work
Mon Mar 12, 2018 @ GNS (8/1545)
-Continued work on comparison of observations and synthetics
-Fixed problem with instrument response removal suppressing observation amplitudes
-Fixed problem of convolution amplifying synthetic amplitudes
-Still have troubles matching phases but amplitudes are roughly the same (within a factor of 2?)
-Packed up the car for field work
Tue 13.3.18 - Fri 16.3.18 @ Field
-Fieldwork, installation of new seismometers, replacement of batteries and flashcards
Mon 19.3.18 @ GNS (930/1745)
-Downloaded and converted all RDF data for Jan-Mar deployment
-Continued work on comparison of observations and synthetics, time shift was causing phase mismatch, still some phase mismatch but overall waveform structure similar
    -need to talk to Yoshi about the similarity of the waveforms
-Checked synthetic displacement (differentiated) and velocity, is the same
-Ran a simulation for 2014p715167, data available now > need to compare observations and synthetics and also look at the OBS data to see if long duration visible
-Optimized/refactored a few scripts
Tue 20.3.18 @ VIC (930/1710)
-Got all scripts working on VIC computers, wrote mseed downloaders to remove strain on FDSN queries after it has been done once
-Compared new simulations against observations, as well as OBS data, fit is not great, need to check why that is, as the fit on the other synthetics are quite good
-Realized RDF data is only 1-hour long for every day, need to reprocess this data
-Read 1/2 of Tape et al. 2010 paper on adjoint tomography
Wed 21.3.18 @ VIC (10/1830)
-Talked to Callum about template matching algorithm EQcorrscan
-Finished reading Tape 2010 paper
-Streamlined some of the stationxml storage solutions
-Wrote in rotation of N/E components into obsynth script, and a station-event plotter
-Started EQ catalog builder
-Ran another simulation of 2014p240655 with GCMT solution for comparison with the converted GEONET MT solutions. Still need to look at results

